While we enjoy relative freedom in many countries around the world,
at times governments impose bans or restrictions on the preaching work.
Brothers Stefano's Densas serves as a special pioneer in Addis Ababa Ethiopia,
along with his wife Leta Brahan.
Their faith was tested during many years of adversity.
What helped them champion the truth?
Their story began and what is today Eritrea?
Will it day?
I come from a family of nine children.
I joined the Navy in 1956.
That was during the time when Eritrea was part of Ethiopia.
My brother, Gebra Hewatt, asked me to come to Asmara.
He was studying the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was so impressed with what he shared with me
that for the rest of my vacation,
Bible study became my priority.
In time, I was discharged from the Navy and started working in Addis Ababa.
So I was able to continue studying the Bible and get baptized.
Leta was also doing the same.
In 1960, I was attending a nursing college.
There, a nurse shared some interesting thoughts with me from the Bible.
Ten other student nurses also showed interest,
but the college threatened us with dismissal
because there was a ban on Jehovah's Witnesses.
When we were shown from the Bible why true Christians are persecuted,
we renewed our determination.
Eventually, five of us were baptized.
In time, I met Stefana and we were married in 1964.
Because of the ban, the brothers were meeting in small groups.
Our trust was in Jehovah,
and we made the preaching work a matter of prayer,
confident that he would help us.
We saw evidence of this with the underground production of the watchtower.
Our brothers would have modest means,
but they used what they had to buy a hand-operated duplicating machine
which was used in our home.
After returning from our second work,
Leta and I would get busy making copies of the watchtower.
We would play music, so our neighbors wouldn't hear the sound of the duplicator.
In 1974, Emperor Haile Selassie was deposed.
This communist government quickly began a campaign called Red Terror
against any supposed political opposer.
Now, just having a typewriter or a duplicating machine
could put you in prison or even have you killed.
Picking up a paper from the street with something printed on it against the government
could put one's life in danger.
It was common for people to disappear.
Sadly, my youngest brother, Eob, was a victim.
He disappeared on his way home and was never seen again.
With the situation being very dangerous,
we were quite concerned raising our daughter Janet.
But as we fully trusted in Jehovah,
we felt his loving protection.
From time to time, sections of the city were suddenly blockaded.
This happened one morning as a translator was heading to our home to deliver stencils for printing.
Urgently, he telephoned informing us that a house to house search was underway.
Our house was full of publications,
along with the duplicator and typewriters.
Just after the phone call, three soldiers entered our compound to search.
At that moment, I prayed silently that Jehovah would blind them.
Entering the room where the duplicator and stacks of freshly printed literature were,
one soldier asked, what is all this?
All this is a duplicator that we use to print these Bible materials.
Completing his search, he went outside to the commander, who asked him,
what did you find? To our utter amazement, after seeing everything, he answered,
nothing. We won't find anything here.
In the late 1970s and into the early 80s,
another wave of vicious persecution occurred.
A number of faithful brothers were imprisoned, tortured, and murdered.
I was taken from my workplace because of my neutral stand and put in prison.
When I think about living through those difficult times,
I'm reminded of Isaiah 54, 17, where Jehovah promised us,
no weapon formed against you will have any success.
Finally, in 1991, a liberal government came to power.
They gave us legal recognition and freedom of worship.
With these difficult, dangerous years now behind us,
we were assigned to the circuit work in Eritrea and Ethiopia.
By now, Eritrea was becoming an independent country,
and this brought about new challenges for the brothers.
Some young brothers were arrested and imprisoned because of their Christian stand.
Paul wrote at Hebrews 13, verse 3,
keep in mind those in prison, as though you were in prison with them.
After enjoying the circuit work for 15 years,
we faced another change.
We were invited to serve at Bethel as full-time commuters.
What has helped us to endure through the ban years,
and to adjust to the many changes, is our spiritual study program.
We're in full agreement with Jeremiah 17, verse 7.
Blessed is the man who puts his trust in Jehovah.
It also brings us much happiness to know that our daughter Janet
has been serving as a regular pioneer for 20 years now.
Each assignment has had its challenges,
but many rewards and blessings.
I'm not young anymore. I'm 77 years old.
And I'm 74 years old.
We are now serving as special pioneers.
When we think about all the changes that we've been through,
we realize that the words of Isaiah 6, verse 8,
here I am, send me, are not just for young people,
but for all of us.